---
title: New Tyre
description: Fitting a new Bike Tyre
category: CB500
featured-img: normal/2009/06/cimg2090
image-caption: test image caption
type: post # used in _layouts/posts.html:section
# Note: layout type of files in '_posts' is configured as 'post' in _config.yml
---
The rear Tyre of my (t)rusty old CB500 needed to be replaced. I could have brought it to the local Bike shop but why not give it a try myself? Naturally I would not have attempted this without my 2 helpers..

A 130/80 17 Bridgestone BT45 (H-RATED series) was ordered from Crossans in Newry (Northern Ireland) costing £74

The first problem was to remove the old Tyre from the Rim. I found a handy way on YouTube...
First we drill a hole so that we can get the jig saw in.

{% include image.html src="/assets/images/normal/2009/06/cimg2090.jpg" %}

Saw all the way around the tyre in order to half it.

{% include image.html src="/assets/images/normal/2009/06/cimg2091.jpg" %}

'Breaking the bead' is hard, one way of getting the Tyre off the rim is to depress it with something heavy (my beloved Jeep Cherokee).

{% include image.html src="/assets/images/normal/2009/06/cimg2092.jpg" %}

After breaking some sweat this is the result, the dishwashing liquid is used when putting the new Tyre on.

{% include image.html src="/assets/images/normal/2009/06/cimg2093.jpg" %}

After the Tyre was mounted the balance needed to be checked. Using the rear axle and a perfectly level step ladder I established that the existing balancing was Ok. Well at least for the speeds I'm going at.

{% include image.html src="/assets/images/normal/2009/06/cimg2095.jpg" %}

After all this the most important job is cleaning the old Tyre.

{% include image.html src="/assets/images/normal/2009/06/cimg2097.jpg" %}

I also had help cleaning the drum brake housing. He loves the smell of Petrol...

{% include image.html src="/assets/images/normal/2009/06/cimg2098.jpg" %}

Up to the next job ;-)
